[OSDOCS-3974]: new node tuning topic for hosted control planes (#51302)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/node-tuning-hosted-cluster.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/using-node-tuning-operator.adoc

[id="node-tuning-hosted-cluster_{context}"]

> = Configuring node tuning in a hosted cluster (Technology Preview)

Reviewer: No need for (Technology Preview) in the title, as that should be defined by the snippet below.

//# Manage node-level tuning with the Node Tuning Operator

To set node-level tuning on the nodes in your hosted cluster, you can use the Node Tuning Operator. In hosted control planes, you can configure node tuning by creating config maps that contain tuned objects and referencing those config maps in your node pools. Currently, node tuning is limited to actions that the TuneD daemon can apply directly, such as setting sysctl values. Tuning that requires setting kernel boot parameters is not yet supported for hosted control planes.

> :FeatureName: Hosted control planes

Reviewer: The FeatureName and includes statement should be at the top.

include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.Procedure

. Create a config map that contains a valid tuned manifest, and reference the manifest in a node pool. In the following example, a tuned manifest defines a profile that sets `vm.dirty_ratio` to 55 on nodes that contain the `tuned-1-node-label` node label with any value. Save the config map manifest in a file named `tuned-1.yaml`:

> 

Reviewer: A couple things here. 
* Use a `+` sign to nest the code block beneath the step, as you have with the `[NOTE]` block. 
* For coloration on docs.openshift, include a [source,yaml] block. 
* You also need four dashes around the code block, before and after. 

Example: 
```
Save the config map manifest in a fila named `tuned-1.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion:
etc...
----
+
[NOTE]
```

Reviewer: So this is MUCH better, the build preview looks great! I noticed you still have empty lines between the step and the output on lines 18, 47, 62, 96, 113, and 122. While this still renders correctly on the docs.openshift build preview, there is no guarantee that it will render accurately on the customer portal or other places we publish.  I recommend removing empty lines where possible.

The second header and procedure needs to be in it's own module. Please trim the empty lines that are currently on lines  179, 194, 211, 229, 253, 270, and 290.

    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: tuned-1
      namespace: clusters
    data:
      tuned: |
        apiVersion: tuned.openshift.io/v1
        kind: Tuned
        metadata:
          name: tuned-1
          namespace: openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator
        spec:
          profile:
          - data: |
              [main]
              summary=Custom OpenShift profile
              include=openshift-node
              [sysctl]
              vm.dirty_ratio="55"
            name: tuned-1-profile
          recommend:
          - priority: 20
            profile: tuned-1-profile

+
[NOTE]
====
If you do not add any labels to an entry in the `spec.recommend` section of the tuned spec, node-pool-based matching is assumed, so the highest priority profile in the `spec.recommend` section is applied to nodes in the pool. Although you can achieve more fine-grained node-label-based matching by setting a label value in the tuned `.spec.recommend.match` section, node labels will not persist during an upgrade unless you set the node pool `.spec.management.upgradeType` value to `InPlace`.
====

. Create the config map in the management cluster:

>    

Reviewer: So this is a terminal command rather than yaml, which will look like this (using some of the same feedback from above). In addition, for terminal input we use a dollar sign to indicate user privileges. Sometimes we use a pound sign if different privileges are required (root users) but that's very infrequent in OpenShift:
```
. Create the config map in the management cluster: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig .... .yaml
----
```

   oc --kubeconfig="$MGMT_KUBECONFIG" create -f tuned-1.yaml

. Reference the config map in the node pool's `spec.tunedConfig` field, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one node pool, `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.

> 

Reviewer: Same here, back to yaml block:
```
... 2 nodes:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion:
etc...
----
+
[NOTE]
```

    apiVersion: hypershift.openshift.io/v1alpha1
    kind: NodePool
    metadata:
      ...
      name: nodepool-1
      namespace: clusters
    ...
    spec:
      ...
      tunedConfig:
      - name: tuned-1
    status:
    ...

+
[NOTE]
====
You can reference the same config map in multiple node pools. In hosted control planes, the Node Tuning Operator appends a hash of the node pool name and namespace to the name of the tuned custom resources (tuneds) to distinguish them. Outside of this case, do not create multiple tuned profiles of the same name in different tuneds for the same hosted cluster.
====

.Verification

Now that you have created the config map that contains a tuned manifest and referenced it in a node pool, the Node Tuning Operator syncs the tuned objects into the hosted cluster. You can verify which tuneds are defined and which profiles are set for each node.

. List the tuned objects in the hosted cluster:

> 

Reviewer: ````
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --kube...
----
````

    oc --kubeconfig="$HC_KUBECONFIG" get Tuneds -n openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator

+
.Example output

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer: Excellent! More of this :+1:

----
    NAME       AGE
    default    7m36s
    rendered   7m36s
    tuned-1    65s
----
   
. List the profiles in the hosted cluster:

> 

Reviewer: Here as well, terminal command

    oc --kubeconfig="$HC_KUBECONFIG" get Profiles -n openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
    NAME                           TUNED            APPLIED   DEGRADED   AGE
    nodepool-1-worker-1            tuned-1-profile  True      False      7m43s
    nodepool-1-worker-2            tuned-1-profile  True      False      7m14s
----

+

> As you can see, both worker nodes in the node pool have the `tuned-1-profile` applied. If no custom profiles are created, the `openshift-node` profile is applied by default.

Reviewer: The first sentence is unnecessary because the output shows the profile is applied. The second sentence should probably go in a [NOTE] block for emphasis. 

In addition, the `+` on the above line (107) needs to go directly under the output for it to nest correctly under the step. 
Example:
```
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
    NAME                           TUNED            APPLIED   DEGRADED   AGE
    nodepool-1-worker-1            tuned-1-profile  True      False      7m43s
    nodepool-1-worker-2            tuned-1-profile  True      False      7m14s
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If no custom profiles are created, the `openshift-node` profile is applied by default.
===
```

> .Next steps

Reviewer: This should be `.Verification` because we are confirming the tuning was applied correctly.

To confirm that the tuning was applied correctly, start a debug shell on a node and check the sysctl values:

> 

Reviewer: ```
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc kube...
----
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/using-node-tuning-operator.adoc

[id="node-tuning-hosted-cluster_{context}"]
= Configuring node tuning in a hosted cluster

//# Manage node-level tuning with the Node Tuning Operator

:FeatureName: Hosted control planes
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> To set node-level tuning on the nodes in your hosted cluster, you can use the Node Tuning Operator. In hosted control planes, you can configure node tuning by creating config maps that contain tuned objects and referencing those config maps in your node pools. Currently, node tuning is limited to actions that the TuneD daemon can apply directly, such as setting sysctl values. Tuning that requires setting kernel boot parameters is not yet supported for hosted control planes.

Author: @dagrayvid Thanks for your review so far! I especially appreciate your thoughts on ConfigMap, NodePool, and Tuned. Would you say that all the instances in this content are referring to the actual objects? If so, I can update the terminology. 

The OpenShift glossary recommends "config map" and "node pool" unless the actual objects are being referred to, in which case, `ConfigMap` and `NodePool` are correct. I can't find guidance about Tuned, so I'll trust your advice that it should be capitalized.

> To set node-level tuning on the nodes in your hosted cluster, you can use the Node Tuning Operator. In hosted control planes, you can configure node tuning by creating config maps that contain tuned objects and referencing those config maps in your node pools. Currently, node tuning is limited to actions that the TuneD daemon can apply directly, such as setting sysctl values. Tuning that requires setting kernel boot parameters is not yet supported for hosted control planes.

Reviewer 2: I see what you mean. After taking a look through doc [guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-formatting), it seems like some of the uses in these docs should be "config maps" and some should be `ConfigMap`... Specifically in this line, we are speaking in general so it is probably okay as it is.

.Procedure

. Create a config map that contains a valid tuned manifest, and reference the manifest in a node pool. In the following example, a `Tuned` manifest defines a profile that sets `vm.dirty_ratio` to 55 on nodes that contain the `tuned-1-node-label` node label with any value. Save the following `ConfigMap` manifest in a file named `tuned-1.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: tuned-1
      namespace: clusters
    data:

>       tuned: |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      tuning: |
```

> . Create a config map that contains a valid tuned manifest, and reference the manifest in a node pool. In the following example, a tuned manifest defines a profile that sets `vm.dirty_ratio` to 55 on nodes that contain the `tuned-1-node-label` node label with any value. Save the config map manifest in a file named `tuned-1.yaml`:

Reviewer 2: From the guidelines, I think Tuned should be formatted here as `Tuned`, as we are talking about the specific example object.

> . Create a config map that contains a valid tuned manifest, and reference the manifest in a node pool. In the following example, a tuned manifest defines a profile that sets `vm.dirty_ratio` to 55 on nodes that contain the `tuned-1-node-label` node label with any value. Save the config map manifest in a file named `tuned-1.yaml`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a config map that contains a valid tuned manifest, and reference the manifest in a node pool. In the following example, a `Tuned` manifest defines a profile that sets `vm.dirty_ratio` to 55 on nodes that contain the `tuned-1-node-label` node label with any value. Save the following `ConfigMap` manifest in a file named `tuned-1.yaml`:
```

        apiVersion: tuned.openshift.io/v1
        kind: Tuned
        metadata:
          name: tuned-1
          namespace: openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator
        spec:
          profile:
          - data: |
              [main]
              summary=Custom OpenShift profile
              include=openshift-node
              [sysctl]
              vm.dirty_ratio="55"
            name: tuned-1-profile
          recommend:
          - priority: 20
            profile: tuned-1-profile
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If you do not add any labels to an entry in the `spec.recommend` section of the Tuned spec, node-pool-based matching is assumed, so the highest priority profile in the `spec.recommend` section is applied to nodes in the pool. Although you can achieve more fine-grained node-label-based matching by setting a label value in the Tuned `.spec.recommend.match` section, node labels will not persist during an upgrade unless you set the `.spec.management.upgradeType` value of the node pool to `InPlace`.
====

. Create the `ConfigMap` object in the management cluster:
+
[source, terminal]
----   
$ oc --kubeconfig="$MGMT_KUBECONFIG" create -f tuned-1.yaml
----

> . Reference the `ConfigMap` object in the `spec.tunedConfig` field of the node pool, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one 'NodePool', named `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Reference the `ConfigMap` object in the `spec.tunedConfig` field of the node pool, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one `NodePool`, named `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.
```

> . Reference the `ConfigMap` object in the `spec.tunedConfig` field of the node pool, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one 'NodePool', named `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Reference the `ConfigMap` object in the `spec.tuningConfig` field of the node pool, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one 'NodePool', named `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.
```

> . Reference the `ConfigMap` object in the `spec.tuningConfig` field of the node pool, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one 'NodePool', named `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Reference the `ConfigMap` object in the `spec.tuningConfig` field of the node pool, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one `NodePool`, named `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.
```

> . Reference the config map in the node pool's `spec.tunedConfig` field, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one node pool, `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Reference the `ConfigMap` in the node pool's `spec.tunedConfig` field, either by editing a node pool or creating one. In this example, assume that you have only one `NodePool`, `nodepool-1`, which contains 2 nodes.
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
    apiVersion: hypershift.openshift.io/v1alpha1
    kind: NodePool
    metadata:
      ...
      name: nodepool-1
      namespace: clusters
    ...
    spec:
      ...

>       tunedConfig:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      tuningConfig:
```

      - name: tuned-1
    status:
    ...
----
+
[NOTE]
====
You can reference the same config map in multiple node pools. In hosted control planes, the Node Tuning Operator appends a hash of the node pool name and namespace to the name of the tuned custom resources (tuneds) to distinguish them. Outside of this case, do not create multiple tuned profiles of the same name in different tuneds for the same hosted cluster.
====

.Verification

> Now that you have created the config map that contains a tuned manifest and referenced it in a node pool, the Node Tuning Operator syncs the tuned objects into the hosted cluster. You can verify which tuneds are defined and which profiles are set for each node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you have created the `ConfigMap` that contains a `Tuned` manifest and referenced it in a `NodePool`, the Node Tuning Operator syncs the `Tuned` objects into the hosted cluster. You can verify which `Tuned` objects are defined and which TuneD profiles are applied to each node.
```

> . List the tuned objects in the hosted cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. List the `Tuned` objects in the hosted cluster:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig="$HC_KUBECONFIG" get Tuneds -n openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

>     NAME       AGE

Reviewer: One FINAL comment  - lines 97-100 are still indented. Everything else looks great!!

Author: Good catch! I'll fix that now.

default    7m36s
rendered   7m36s
tuned-1    65s
----
   

> . List the profiles in the hosted cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. List the `Profile` objects in the hosted cluster:
```

====

.Verification

Now that you have created the config map that contains a tuned manifest and referenced it in a node pool, the Node Tuning Operator syncs the tuned objects into the hosted cluster. You can verify which tuneds are defined and which profiles are set for each node.

. List the tuned objects in the hosted cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
    oc --kubeconfig="$HC_KUBECONFIG" get Tuneds -n openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator
----

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
    NAME       AGE
    default    7m36s
    rendered   7m36s
    tuned-1    65s
----
   
. List the profiles in the hosted cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
    oc --kubeconfig="$HC_KUBECONFIG" get Profiles -n openshift-cluster-node-tuning-operator
----

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
    NAME                           TUNED            APPLIED   DEGRADED   AGE
    nodepool-1-worker-1            tuned-1-profile  True      False      7m43s
    nodepool-1-worker-2            tuned-1-profile  True      False      7m14s
----

+
[NOTE]
====
If no custom profiles are created, the `openshift-node` profile is applied by default.
====

> 

Reviewer: Remove one of these empty lines between the note and the next step.

. To confirm that the tuning was applied correctly, start a debug shell on a node and check the sysctl values:
+
[source,terminal]
----
    oc --kubeconfig="$HC_KUBECONFIG" debug node/nodepool-1-worker-1 -- chroot /host sysctl vm.dirty_ratio
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
    vm.dirty_ratio = 55
----

> [id="advanced-node-tuning-hosted-cluster_{context}"]

Reviewer: One procedure per module where possible, according to the [guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#writing-procedures). I recommend breaking this out into a second module.
